Add ChainIDE doc (#945)
maticnetwork/matic-docs: docs/develop/chainide.md

7. Verify the deployed smart contract on Polygonscan

## Install MetaMask
When deploying a smart contract on the blockchain or when making a transaction to a deployed smart contract, a gas fee must be paid, and for that, we need to use a crypto wallet which can be MetaMask.
Please click [here](https://metamask.io/) to install MetaMask. After installing, you need to manually add the Polygon Mumbai Testnet to MetaMask. To add Polygon Mumbai Testnet to MetaMask, see the [MetaMask Polygon documentation](https://docs.polygon.technology/docs/develop/metamask/config-polygon-on-metamask#add-the-polygon-network-manually). Then, navigate to the [Polygon Faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology/) to get obtain testnet tokens.

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image.png)

## Write an ERC-721 Smart Contract 

You need to write down all the required functions that you want to implement in your ERC-721 smart contract. A general ERC-721 smart contract has the following functions:
 - `balanceOf()`: return by_ The number of NFTs held by the owner
 - `ownerOf()`: returns the address of the token holder

>  - grant address_ To has_ Token ID control. Approval event needs to be triggered after the method is successful

Reviewer: Not sure if this is supposed to be part of another function

 - `setApprovalForAll()`: Grant address_ The operator has the control of all NFTs, and the `approvalforall` event needs to be triggered after success

>    getApproved()

Reviewer: I believe this was forgotten

## Compile an ERC-721 Smart Contract

After you have completed your smart contract, 
it is time to compile it. 
To compile, navigate to "compile the module", choose an appropriate compiler according to your source code, 
and press "compile" button. An ABI and bytecode for the source code generates upon successful compilation.
If there are some errors in your source code, they will display under the output panel in the "Logger module". 
You may need to carefully read the error, resolve it accordingly and compile the contract again.
:::note

Note down the compiler version and the license for your source code as it would be needed when you verify your smart contract on the Polygon Mumbai Testnet.

:::

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(1).png)

## Deploy an ERC-721 Smart Contract

After successful compilation, it's time to deploy your compiled ERC-721 smart contract to the Polygon Mumbai test network. 
For that, you need to have a MetaMask installed, the Polygon Mumbai test network added to your wallet, 
and some testnet tokens to pay for the transaction fee. 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(2).png)

After successful deployment, an output message should state that your smart contract was deployed successfully. 
You can now verify the deployed contract. All the functions in the deployed smart contract can be seen in the "INTERACT" panel.

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(3).png)

## NFT Minting

To mint an NFT, you need to use the "award item" function, the wallet address of someone to whom you want to award an NFT too,
 and the link of the photo uploaded to IPFS needs to be pasted in the token URL input field.

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(4).png)

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(5).png)

After successful minting, you can check the minted NFT on the OpenSea NFT marketplace. 
Visit [OpenSea Testnet](https://testnets.opensea.io/), connect your MetaMask wallet, and make sure the selected network is Polygon Mumbai Testnet, and you'll be able to see and trade the minted NFT on the OpenSea NFT marketplace.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(6).png)

## Create a Flattened File using Flattener Library
To verify a smart contract that imports other smart contracts, 
we need to create a flattened file, 
a flattened file including all the source code of imported contracts in a single file. 
To create a flattened file, you need to add a "Flattener" plug-in.

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(7).png)

Once the Flatterner plug-in is activated, you'll be able to access it as a separate module as shown in the figure below. 
Choose the compiled file, and click on the flatten button to create a flattened file, once the flattened file is created,
 it will be automatically copied to the clipboard, 
you may paste it to a file and save it for later usage.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(8).png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

If you want to save the flattened file, click save button, and a flattened file will be saved in the current repository.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(9).png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The saved flattened file can be access under the explorer module.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/Using+ChainIDE+polygon/connect+mumbai.png)

### 3. Compile an ERC-721 smart contract
After you have completed writing down your smart contract, 
it's time to compile the smart contract. 
To compile, please go to compile the module, choose an appropriate compiler according to your source code, 
and press compile button. After successful compilation, an ABI and byte code for the source code will be generated. 
If there are some errors in your source code, they would be displayed under the output panel in the Logger module. 
You may need to carefully read the error, resolve it accordingly and compile it again.
! Please note down the compiler version and the license for your source code as it would be needed when you verify your smart contract on the Polygon Mumbai Testnet.

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(1).png)

### 4. Deploy an ERC-721 Smart Contract

> After successful compilation, it's time to deploy your compiled ERC-721 smart contract to the Polygon Mumbai Test Network. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successful compilation, it's time to deploy your compiled ERC-721 smart contract to the Polygon Mumbai test network. 
```

> For that, you need to have a MetaMask installed, Polygon Mumbai Test Network added to your MetaMask, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For that, you need to have a MetaMask installed, the Polygon Mumbai test network added to your wallet, 
```

> and some dummy coins to pay for the transaction fee. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and some testnet tokens to pay for the transaction fee. 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You need to go to the "Deploy & Interaction" module and choose among the compiled smart contract, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the "Deploy & Interaction" module and choose among the compiled smart contract. Select 
```

> the smart contract you want to deploy and click the deploy button. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the smart contract you want to deploy and click the "deploy" button. 
```

> For this tutorial, we'll use the "GameItem" smart contract to deploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this tutorial, the `GameItem` smart contract will be deployed.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(2).png)

> After the successful deployment, a message can be seen in the output section that your smart contract has been deployed successfully, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successful deployment, an output message should state that your smart contract was deployed successfully. 
```

> and you can verify the deployed smart contract on the Polygon Mumbai Test Network too. All the functions in the deployed smart contract can be seen in the "INTERACT" panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now verify the deployed contract. All the functions in the deployed smart contract can be seen in the "INTERACT" panel.
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(3).png)

> ### 5. NFT Minting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## NFT Minting

```

> To mint an NFT, you need to use the award item function and use the wallet address of someone to whom you want to award an NFT,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mint an NFT, you need to use the "award item" function, the wallet address of someone to whom you want to award an NFT too,
```

 and the link of the photo uploaded to IPFS needs to be pasted in the token URL input field.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(4).png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(5).png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

After successful minting, you can check the minted NFT on the OpenSea NFT marketplace. 
Visit [OpenSea Testnet](https://testnets.opensea.io/), connect your MetaMask wallet, and make sure the selected network is Polygon Mumbai Testnet, and you'll be able to see and trade the minted NFT on the OpenSea NFT marketplace.

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(6).png)

> ### 6. Create a Flattened File using Flattener Library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a Flattened File using Flattener Library
```

To verify a smart contract that imports other smart contracts, 
we need to create a flattened file, 
a flattened file including all the source code of imported contracts in a single file. 
To create a flattened file, you need to add a "Flattener" plug-in.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(7).png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Once the Flatterner plug-in is activated, you'll be able to access it as a separate module as shown in the figure below. 
Choose the compiled file, and click on the flatten button to create a flattened file, once the flattened file is created,
 it will be automatically copied to the clipboard, 
you may paste it to a file and save it for later usage.

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(8).png)

If you want to save the flattened file, click save button, and a flattened file will be saved in the current repository.

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(9).png)

The saved flattened file can be access under the explorer module.

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(10).png)

> ### 7.  Verify a Smart Contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Verify a Smart Contract

```

To verify a smart contract, you need to visit [Mumbai Polygonscan](https://mumbai.polygonscan.com/), and 
search for the deployed smart contract using the contract address.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(11).png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Click on the verify and publish link shown under the contract section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on the "verify and publish" link shown under the contract section. 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(12).png)

Once you click on the verify and publish link, you will be asked for the following:

 - Contract Address: The address of a deployed smart contract that you want to verify
 - Compiler Type: Either you want to verify a single file or multiple files
 - Compiler Version: The compiler version that you used to compile the smart contract
 - License: Open-source license type that you used for your source code

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(13).png)

After that, you  need to paste the flattened file that you created in step 5, and your smart contract will be verified. 

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(14).png)

If there are no issues with your smart contract, it would be verified, and you'll be able to see an image similar to the one that is shown below.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(15).png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Your smart contract is verified, and you're done with this tutorial. 

>  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Pre-requisites

1. ChainIDE
2. MetaMask
3. Solidity

## Setting up a Wallet

### Install MetaMask

When deploying a smart contract on the blockchain or when making a transaction to a deployed smart contract, a gas fee must be paid, and for that, we need to use a crypto wallet which can be MetaMask. Click [here](https://metamask.io/) to install MetaMask. 

###  Manually adding the Mumbai testnet

After installing MetaMask, you need to manually add the Polygon Mumbai Testnet to MetaMask. To add Polygon Mumbai Testnet to MetaMask, see the [MetaMask Polygon documentation](https://docs.polygon.technology/docs/develop/metamask/config-polygon-on-metamask#add-the-polygon-network-manually). 

<div style={{ display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'center', alignItems: 'center' }}>
  <img src="https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image.png" />
</div>

> ### Getting Testnet  Matic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Getting Testnet Matic
```

###  Adding the Mumbai Testnet
After installing MetaMask, you need to manually add the Polygon Mumbai Testnet to MetaMask. To add Polygon Mumbai Testnet to MetaMask, see the [MetaMask Polygon documentation](https://docs.polygon.technology/docs/develop/metamask/config-polygon-on-metamask#add-the-polygon-network-manually). 

<div style={{ display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'center', alignItems: 'center' }}>
  <img src="https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image.png" />
</div>

### Getting Test Matic
Once added Mumbai testnet to MetaMask, navigate to the [Polygon Faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology/) to get some test tokens. We will need them to pay for gas fees to deploy and interact with the smart contract. choose Mumbai as a network, Matic Token as a token and paste your MetaMask wallet address, click submit, and faucet will send you some test Matic.
![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/Polygon_PR_get_tokens.png)

> ## What You'll Do

Reviewer: can go after prerequisites

You need to write down all the required functions that you want to implement in your ERC-721 smart contract. A general ERC-721 smart contract has the following functions:

-   `balanceOf()`: return by_ The number of NFTs held by the owner
    
-   `ownerOf()`: returns the address of the token holder
    
-   `approve():`grant address_ To has_ Token ID control. Approval event needs to be triggered after the method is successful
    
-   `setApprovalForAll()`: Grant address_ The operator has the control of all NFTs, and the approvalforall event needs to be triggered after success
    
-   `getApproved()` : Get the approved address for a single NFT
    
-   `isApprovedForAll()`: Query if an address is an authorized operator for another address
    
-   `safeTransferFrom()`: To transfer the ownership of an NFT, a successful transfer operation must initiate a transfer event
    
-   `transferFrom()`: Used to transfer NFTs. After the method succeeds, it needs to trigger the transfer event. The caller confirms himself_ To address can receive NFT normally, otherwise, this NFT will be lost. When this function is implemented, it needs to check whether it meets the judgment conditions

>     

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(14).png)

If there are no issues with your smart contract, it would be verified, and you'll be able to see an image similar to the one that is shown below.

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(15).png)

## NFT Minting

To mint an NFT, you need to use the "award item" function, the wallet address of someone to whom you want to award an NFT too, and the link of the photo uploaded to IPFS needs to be pasted in the token URL input field.

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(4).png)

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(5).png)

After successful minting, you can check the minted NFT on the OpenSea NFT marketplace. Visit [OpenSea Testnet](https://testnets.opensea.io/), connect your MetaMask wallet and make sure the selected network is Polygon Mumbai Testnet, and you'll be able to see and trade the minted NFT on the OpenSea NFT marketplace.

![](https://chainide-doc.s3.amazonaws.com/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(6).png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You have minted an NFT successfully, and you're done with this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations, you have successfully minted an NFT on Polygon using ChainIDE.
```
